<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC  "-//KDE//DTD DocBook V3.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" [
  <!ENTITY kuser "<application>KUser</application>">
  <!ENTITY kuser "&kuser;">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % ents PUBLIC "-//KDE//ENTITIES Application-Variable Entities V1.0//EN">
  %ents;
]>
<book lang="en">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &kuser; Handbook</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Matt</firstname>
<surname>Johnston</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>mattj@flashmail.com</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<othercredit>
<firstname>Lauri</firstname>
<surname>Watts</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>vampyr@atconnex.net</email></address>
</affiliation>
<contrib>Reviewer</contrib>
</othercredit>

</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2000</year>
<holder>Matt Johnston</holder>
</copyright>
<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>


<date>22/08/2000</date>
<releaseinfo>1.3.00</releaseinfo>

<abstract><para>This documentation describes &kuser; version 1.0. This program
allows you to manage users and groups on your system.</para> </abstract> 

<keywordset>
<keyword>kuser</keyword>
<keyword>user</keyword>
<keyword>management</keyword>
<keyword>admin</keyword>
<keyword>tools</keyword>
<keyword>group</keyword>
<keyword>password</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>

<chapter id="Start">
<title>Getting Started</title>
<para>This is a short introduction to &kuser;. For more detailed information see
<link linkend="Using">Usage</link>.</para>

<para>Actually you do not need to do anything to begin using &kuser; except
<link linkend="customizing">configuration</link>.</para>

<para>When you have made the changes you want, you must
<guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem>save> them for them to take effect. Either choose
the Toolbar icon, or use the <guimenu>File</guimenu> menu.</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="Using">
<title>Usage</title>

<sect1 id="sec1MainWindow">
<title>Main Window</title>

<para>&kuser; is a very simple application. In the main window you can see two 
lists: the list of users and the list of groups. To edit a user or a group you
just double click on it. The user/group properties dialog will
appear.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="user-properties">
<title>User Properties Dialog</title>

<para>The user properties dialog has various tabs.</para>

<para>The number of tabs depends on the type of the user storage system and
whether quotas are being used. Additional tabs will appear if you have shadow
passwords, or any other similar things such as
<filename>/etc/master.passwd</filename> in BSD flavor Unices.</para> 

<sect2 id="user-info"> 
<title><guilabel>User Info</guilabel> Tab</title>

<para>In the "<guilabel>User Info</guilabel>" tab you can modify: </para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Full name</guilabel></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Login shell</guilabel> (the list of login shells is
taken from the <filename>/etc/shells</filename> file)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Home directory</guilabel></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Extra info</guilabel></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>User ID</guilabel></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Password</guilabel></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="extended-info">
<title><guilabel>Extended Info</guilabel> Tab</title>

<para>The "<guilabel>Extended Info</guilabel>" tab will appear if you have
shadow passwords, or any other similar things such as
<filename>/etc/master.passwd</filename> in BSD flavor Unices.</para>

<para>In the "<guilabel>Extended Info</guilabel>" tab you can modify parameters
related to extended account control: </para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Date until change allowed</guilabel></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Date before change required</guilabel></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Date user will be warned about
expiration</guilabel></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Date before account
inactivation</guilabel></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Date when account expires</guilabel></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Class</guilabel> (on BSD systems)</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="quota">
<title><guilabel>Quota</guilabel> Tab</title>

<para>You will probably see the "<guilabel>Quota</guilabel>" tab only if you
have at least one mounted volume with quota enabled and a quota file
present. There you may modify all quota related parameters: </para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><guilabel>File Soft Quota</guilabel></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>File Hard Quota</guilabel></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>File Time Limit (Grace Period)</guilabel></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>iNode Soft Quota</guilabel></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>iNode Hard Quota</guilabel></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>iNode Time Limit (Grace Period)</guilabel></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para> All these parameters can be changed for each filesystem that has user
quota enabled. Filesystems can be changed using the "<guilabel>Quota
Filesystem</guilabel>" combobox.</para> 

</sect2> 

<sect2 id="group">
<title><guilabel>Groups</guilabel> Tab</title>

<para>The "<guilabel>Groups</guilabel>" tab contains all the information about
user's participation in groups. First of all, it shows the user's primary
group. Also, you can assign as many secondary groups as you wish using the arrow
buttons.</para> 

</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="group-properties">
<title><guilabel>Group Properties</guilabel></title>

<para>The <guilabel>Group</guilabel> properties dialog has two list boxes. The
right one contains users ("<guilabel>Users in group</guilabel>"), who are
included in the group, and the left one contains the list of all other users in
the system ("<guilabel>Users not in group</guilabel>"). You can use the
<guibutton>arrow</guibutton> buttons to move a user from one list to the
other. Select the user you want to move, then use the
<guibutton>arrow</guibutton> button  to move the user.</para> 

</sect1>

<sect1 id="add-user">
<title>Adding and Removing Users or Groups</title>

<para>To add a user or group to the system, either choose
<guimenuitem>Add</guimenuitem> from the <guimenu>User</guimenu> or
<guimenu>Group</guimenu> menu, or click the "<guiicon>Add</guiicon>" button on
the toolbar. The same applies to removing users. </para> 
</sect1> 
</chapter>

<chapter id="customizing">
<title>Customizing &kuser;</title>

<sect1 id="defaults">
<title>Edit user creation defaults</title>

<para>To edit the user creation defaults you can use the "<guilabel>Edit
defaults</guilabel>" dialog, which is accessible via the menu
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Preferences</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. There you may change the
defaults that are used when creating a new user: Shell and Home Directory (or
home directories volume). You can choose whether to make a home directory on
"create" or not, to copy a skeleton to the home directory or not. You can also
enable "User Private Group" mechanism, which creates a new personal group with
the creation of a new user, and removes the personal group when the user is
removed.</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="credits">
<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>&kuser;</para>

<para>Program copyright 1997-2000 Denis Pershin
<email>dyp@inetlab.com</email></para>

<para>Documentation copyright 1997-2000 Denis Pershin
<email>dyp@inetlab.com</email></para>
<para>Documentation copyright 2000 Matt Johnston
<email>mattj@flashmail.com</email></para>

&license-links;

</chapter>
<![ %addindex; [ &kdedocindex; ]]>

</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->
